In the last lecture, we added the button and attached the click listener,
now I want to make sure that upon clicking the button, we do actually save everything we need to display
this card. Now that everything is in the end
this URL here where we reach out, where we fetch the data
we're not using but we fake to be using
and if that fails, the whole card is not rendered because we never reach this code
then if we fail to fetch this. So we need to store this in our cache
and another thing we also need to store is the image we use in that card, this is this sf-boat.jpg
file.
So these are the two things we need to save because the image is getting used there
and without the link here, nothing is going to get rendered.
We do have that click listener here in the feed.js
file and this is where I will continue working on to make sure that we catch something upon
user input.
The cool thing is, we can access the cache storage, so this caches object we also use in the service worker
also from the front-end, so also from our normal Javascript files I should say
and there we can call the same methods as in the service worker,
so of course, we can open a cache there too.
Now we could open any cache we also use in the service worker, we can't access the variables there though
but of course we can use the same names and that will then use the same cache storage because our application
shares have one single cache,
there is no separated cache for front-end Javascript code and service worker code
but for the user prompted stuff, I want to set up my own cache.
So here, I will simply add user requested or whatever you like.
So I open this cache and then here, this user promise,
so I chain then.
Now of course the thing is, what do we do if this runs in a browser where caching is not supported or
where the service workers are not supported?
We should probably check this first.
We can do this by adding if the caches object exists in the window object because if that's not
present, then we know we don't have that API at our disposal and we just can't offer that service.
Now of course you might want to enhance the app by simply removing the button then or disabling it because
it won't do anything, here I'll just stick to that
we don't do anything,
so at least we don't throw an error,
so the button will be there but it's not doing anything.
So here I'm checking if we do have caches in the window and if we do have it, we try to open the user requested
cache we created
if it doesn't exist yet. In the function which gets executed thereafter, we therefore have access to
that cache and there, I simply want to store the assets I just mentioned.
Now we can simply use the add method here,
we could of course also send a fetch request
and then on the response call cache put but cache add does all that for us automatically and stores
that in the cache.
So what we can do is we can then cache the two things we want to cache - the boat image and that URL,
let's start with that URL.
I'll simply grab it here because this is the URL the request will be sent to and store it like
that and the same for the boat
and of course we could use add all and pass an array with the two strings. So the boat will be found under
/src/images/sf-boat.jpg
.
This is where we find the boat. Simply in this case the path to that but only because it's running
on our own server,
so the URL of our server will be prepended automatically.
Now with that, we got a functionality to manually add this to the cache,
let's see if that works.
Now we changed something in the feed.js file, so we need to make sure our cache fetches the latest
version by bumping up the static caching to pre-cache
the assets again. With that, let's reload the page and thereafter, let's reopen it to activate the new service
worker
and now let's see, if we visit our application, the cache storage, the dynamic cache is empty because we disabled
dynamic caching, the static cache does have a couple of things.
We get no user requested cache,
now let's click save here. If we click this, console doesn't throw an error,
let's refresh the cache here
and now we see the user requested cache storage and there we get the two requests I was mentioning.
Now with that, let's go offline and reload that page and the card is there.
Now just to demonstrate again that this is due to this button click,
if we delete the user requested cache and reload, it's not there,
so we really have to request this, let me do this one more time, request it, go offline, reload,
it's there.
This is another useful tool in your toolbox, being able to cache on demand,
of course this is mostly useful if you have a resource which the user should request to be cached, like
an article he wants to store for reading it later.
So this is something I definitely want to add because it's a crucial tool and definitely something you
should know.
Now with that, the last thing I want to do for now is I will disable this code again, I'll
leave it in there for reference
but I don't want to use it anymore,
I'll go back to dynamic fetching for now,
I found it important to share this with you though. Now to disable it, all I'll do is I'll simply comment
out the lines where I set up the card save button and I'll comment
this function here that it's currently not in use, allows to save assets in cache on demand otherwise.
So this is commented down here,
I'll make sure to also comment this out here,
we don't want to append the button anymore because we don't have it anymore,
so make sure to comment this out too
and with that in place here, we disabled everything about this dynamic fetching here. Now in the service
worker, you should enable dynamic caching again,
so comment this line in again and bump up the static version number here because we changed something in the
feed.js file.
Now with that, let's reload the page and let's then simply reopen it in a new tab and close the old tab
and with that, you should be back to the old state and in your cache, you have the dynamic cache again
which gets populated, the static one but not the user requested one.
This is the setup with which I want to continue in the next video.